Welcome back and in this lesson we're going to look at even more string methods.
And there's quite a lot of them and they're actually really useful when you're working with strings.
So let's grab our Hello world and we're going to actually transform the value of hello world and we're
going to use the built in string method.
So just we're grabbing the string object.
So it's Daut and we can transform it to uppercase so we can see that that's what it looks like as upper
case.
We can take B and we can transform this one.
And so let's transform this one to lowercase.
So we've got to uppercase two lowercase.
There's a built in methods.
So notice that we got rid of the upper H and the upper W
and we can also return back.
So just as we saw with the raise we can get back the index value.
So we saw that we can do an index value of a letter.
We can do where we select a and we do index.
So we've got an option index of.
And then we need to add in the character so we can say we're looking for H.
And we can return back that within a.
There's no upper case h.
So this is another important thing to note and we saw this within arrays as well.
So if it doesn't exist then we get an index value of negative 1 being returned.
And this is important when you're doing conditional statements and checking to see if a value actually
exists within an array.
So another other thing that we can do so we don't have to limit it to just one character.
We can do an entire word and we can see that we can return back the index value of the entire word.
So what if we have a repeating word Celeste's set up a new variable.
I'm going to do C concatenate it with B.
So now we've got a value of c world.
Hello.
Hello world.
So what if we want to get index of.
So let's get index of.
And we're going to check to see which one is repeating.
So I'll get the index of this character string.
So we see that we're returning back that first set.
So this is 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 and it's starting at point number 7.
We can also do last index of.
So this is another option and this is ideal if we have multiple of that same character that we're trying
to look.
So multiple occurrences of our same needle we can see that we can get the last index of.
And actually we need to do this with and see.
So that was a.
And we can do it within C because we know that C has multiple occurrences of that character.
So we see that we get it returning back at twal So we see this time that EHLO is within that 12 because
we're looking at the last occurrence of it and another thing that we know is that we can actually slice
part of the string out.
So if for instance I want to take C and I want to take a piece of C out we know that if I want to take
EHLO out so the last occurrence of it we need to just specify where we're beginning the slice and then
where we're ending the slice.
So if for instance we enter six and we do 16 then we're slicing out that Hello.
Hello.
And now when we take a look at see.
So if we did see equals C slice We know that we can pull back those values and pull them out.
And also let's also include the spaces we only need to include one space we can set this one at 16
and now when we look at c we are actually returning back that sliced value.
So we want to actually slice this out but we want to return back C as World World.
So we have another option as well that we can't return back part of a string.
So if I do see and substring that allows me to take out a part of the string out.
So again similar to what we saw with slice.
We can have a beginning index and then we can specify how many characters we want to slice so.
So let's say I want to slice out three starting at three.
We can see that that returns the L L O.
So that starting at item index number 3 and then returning back and ending or turning back three.
So if we want to return back 5 we can do that as well.
So we can see there we're getting all five starting at index three.
I remember we've got a space here right in the beginning as well.
So that's what's throwing things off a little bit.
And similar to sub S T R.
There's also sub string.
So this one is very similar and the difference is that this one instead of needing to return back how
many characters were returning.
We have a starting and an ending point.
So if I do three and I want to go to index 10 we can see that this way I can return back 3 to the index
of 10.
So that's the difference.
The second parameter there and that's what's allowing us to select where we're actually stopping our
substring.
So it kind of the same thing as slice.
So it's time for another exercise.
So we're not going to do anything worth checking the guess.
And we want to rate right this basic default message to say hello Javascript.
So just taking out that javascript and simply rewriting that.
And I want you to do that all via javascript.
So rewrite this message to just say javascript using the string methods that we saw earlier and you
can add that code in here so that before we go to check mess check guess that simply it runs the functionality
here.
So do this all in javascript.
I'll show you the solution coming up so we know with variable message we can get the inner H-2 M-L.
So that's the first thing that we need to start with we need to start with our string.
So let's put a message and we'll get.
So take the inner text.
So put it when it within a string value.
So let's go ahead and clear out our console and refresh it.
So sometimes one of the best ways to work with it is so now that we've got complete javascript course
within here and we've got to somehow transform this to say hello Javascript.
So let's begin with that.
And we know with the variable a we've got.
Hello.
And we also have hello inby so we can use any one of these to grab the word Hello.
So let's set up a variable and just simply grab hello out of that.
And so this variable will say hello.
So this is the first part of our task because we've got to say hello javascript and we saw with substring
we could grab out part of the variable so let's do B and we can use either one because we actually know
the amount of the value that we're trying to pull back.
So we know that we want to start at zero and we want to go five characters in.
So let's go back out and let's refresh that.
So now let's just make sure that we hold low within that rate parameter.
And actually we need to grab 6 characters because we need that space.
So models will pick up the space at this point.
So the next thing is that we need to work with string and we need to extract javascript and maybe we
can first start by determining where javascript is located.
So let's do a string and let's do index of in order to find out where the javascript is located.
So it actually wouldn't matter to us which which we're javascript's or if we had more than one javascript's
with in the string we could use more than one.
So we've got string index of javascript so we know that it starts at 9.
So we can grab nine and we can also count out the characters.
We know that Javascript has 10 characters long so we could do a substring here.
So let's do this one here and this one will say Javascript.
And actually let's do a jay jay script
and so let's get the word javascript out of the string value there.
So maybe the first thing that we maybe want to do is get index.
So we just give this one a variable of C..
And this is where index is going to be sitting.
So take the string value and to index some case for whatever reason our
value changes we want to be able to make sure that we can grab javascript out of it.
So next we want to use string and we're going to use substring again.
So this time we can use this substring.
So they're going to really do the same thing and we can use the value of c as our starting point and
we want to go all the way to C plus 10 because we know that the length of it is 10.
So it's probably easier just to use substring in this case.
But anyway so now let's go back and refresh the page and let's just see what our value of a script is
going to be.
So we've got Javascript.
So now it's just a matter of combining them together.
So let's let's do that now.
And we're going to just combine them together and we know that we can reset the value of message and
we can do in our text and we can equal that to
hello and concatenate it to a US script so let's refresh it one more time and we see that now we've
written out Hello javascript just by using the strings and the string method manipulating and grabbing
the strings that we want to make use of.
So what are the thing that I did want to mention here is what happens if you're actually unsure of if
these are upper case or lower case.
So you've got something like this.
And we're going to notice that when we refresh it we're no longer it's no longer going to work properly
because we're not able to grab that value there and we're simply trying to grab javascript and this
is case sensitive.
So keep that in mind.
Pause the video.
And to update it we can actually search for javascript regardless of the case that's being presented
to us.
So pause the video and work out the solution and I'll show you that coming up.
So first of all we can do something like this where we can add another method in here.
So before we're actually work before we're actually grabbing at the string we can transform it to lowercase
or it should be two lowercase
so transforming it to lower case and then we're going to get the index of javascript's so make sure
that over here the string the needle that you're searching for is lower case as well.
So now we're presented with javascript.
The J is upper case and the rest of the characters are lowercase.
So we need to actually transform it back into lowercase and we can create the S and keep that uppercase
as well.
So we want to transform this part and this part to lowercase and we can accomplish this by multiple
methods stringing them together.
So we know that we can grab the first character there and we can simply I'm going to just update this.
And let's let's do substrings so that I can simply count the characters.
So make a quick update an adjustment to there.
So the first one that I want to grab is substring and I want to grab that G so that once fine.
I want to add it together and this time I want to do C plus 1 and grab some string and this time I'm
actually going to transform it to lower case so he can grab up portion of the string transforming it
to lowercase and Dot separate it.
And then we can list out so we're doing plus one.
And now let's grab nine characters so go back out and refresh it.
So this time we've got javascript all lowercase and we might want to do one last thing and that is to
rewrite G-S script.
And we can remove out the one character or we can just simply update that character.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and using the string method and Javascript transform just the G and the S to the upper
case and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you have an opportunity to try that.
And I'm going to just create a brand new string for this and we're going to use that javascript because
we've got it within that.
J.S. JF script object there.
And now let's apply some substring.
So the first thing that I want to do is I want to grab the string from the starting and I want to go
in four positions so that will get me java and then I want to do something different with the s.
So actually I'm going to update these and I'm going to keep that one at G.
So let's go in four positions.
And next I want to grab that ass by itself and let's do a substring.
So do substring and grabbing just the one characteris or starting at 4.
So where we left off the last time and I only want to grab one character one additional character so
that will grab that ass.
And then lastly let's add in the rest of the string.
So this is sub string.
And this time we're going to grab all the characters all the way from 5 onwards.
So grab that entire string and the one thing that we need to do so just says we did up here.
We transformed it to lower case we need to transform it to uppercase.
So now let's go back to refresh page and try it out and it should say javascript within that camel case
where the first j is upper and then the s is upper as well.
So it is it is important to get familiar with the substring and the different methods because this gives
you a lot of manipulation that you can do with the string variables especially if you have a really
long string values and you need to find out where certain words are and make updates to those words.
You can do that using the string method.